You've launched a small business learning center for anyone trying to start a
small business, uh, that, that you're trying to help. Um,
and you've launched a $50 million foundation to help small businesses and
families, um, called the lemonade foundation. Um, I might be missing,
uh, I mean, uh, I guess, you know,
that's just a play on your name at like Ramona's.
So, you know, it's, um,
the reason I launched the learning center is that one of the things that I
learned through my eight year journey with over a hundred businesses on the air
is that there's a common thread of what they were missing and they were missing
a depth of education. And the education isn't one plus one equals two,
or what's the capital of the state of Florida.
It's what are the real things that happen in a business from inventory
management to HR risk, to, you know, hundreds and hundreds of topics.
And you know that as a business owner, that those things happen.
And so I wanted to create a center where people felt a it's free
B people could do it in the privacy of their own home.
And there are so many folks who don't know the answer to things,
but they're embarrassed to admit they don't know it. Um, and I,
I'm one of those people, sometimes if you ask me a question, I may fake it. Um,
and I decided years ago that I wasn't going to fake it. I was going to say,
can you explain that to me? I don't know it. I don't understand that.
And I realized that the key is.
Powerful. If you can acknowledge ignorance, it's very powerful.
It makes the other person feel, uh, I think more connected to you. Yeah,
because you're saying like, Andrew, I don't understand how that works. And, um,
it, it really hit me one day. I got a call from Jamie diamond, uh, from,
you know, from JP Morgan. I was working on something, my phone rang, uh,
on the other end of the line. Hi, uh, is this Marcus? Yes. Uh, hi,
this is Jamie. Oh, okay. I didn't, I didn't know who it was.
I'd like to just talk to you for a few minutes.
Do you have a few minutes that I'm kind of in the middle of something? Um,
but I'm be glad cause I, I, my,
you could find my cell phone on the internet and I said,
I'd be glad to talk to you. I can't do it right now. He said, well, um,
you know, I'm your banker. And I said, Oh, okay, I'm sorry, sir.
I think you may have me confused. My banker is as if this woman's name, he goes,
no, no, I'm that woman's boss. And he said, this is Jamie diamond. I said, no,
seriously, who is this? Like, I, I I'm really busy. And he said, well,
listen, I only called, I got my, I got your phone number, uh, from Steve Burke,
who was the chairman of NBC at the time who was on the board. And he said,
I just want to call and tell you that, um,
I know you think you're only helping small business,
but you're really helping people understand the human psychology of business.
And that is something that you can't teach in a classroom.
And, uh, I just wanted to tell you that,
and then they became chase ended up becoming like a six year sponsor of the
show. The point, the point of that is I think for me as
you went, like what you do and what I do all we're trying to do is just educate,
inform, inspire. That's it.
Again, you, you, uh, acted in a way that's really, um,
unique singular, uh,
because you've walked the walk for years at great personal
cost, not just in terms of, uh, financial resources,
but really the most precious thing of all, which is like your time, um,
energy and spirit. I'm actually going to, to explain to you what I did,
which was like my, my shot at the same problem,
just because I want to hear what you think. Um, so I, we,
you and I graduated from college around the same time. Um,
I was not as enterprising as you. So I went to law school, uh,
and then after I went to law school,
I tried to start a business that did not work out and then ended up going
through sort of the ups and downs of entrepreneurship. Um,
and so years later after my company was acquired, uh,
in 2009 and 2011, I started a nonprofit that tried to, uh,
train the next generation of entrepreneur and help startups grow. Um,
so the organization's called venture for America. I want to see what you hear,
what you think of this. Um,
so the thought process was that there are all of these enterprising college
graduates who want to learn to become someone like you.
But right now they go to JP Morgan and Deloitte,
these big consulting and finance shops to quote unquote, learn about business.
So what venture for America does venture for America,
puts them through a bootcamp of five weeks and then sends them to work at early
stage growth companies run by entrepreneurs in Detroit, Cleveland,
Baltimore, and new Orleans, Birmingham, and other cities around the country.
So it's like a two year national entrepreneurship, apprenticeship fellowship.
And then at the end of two years, if they want to start their own business,
then we have investors in a seed fund to put money into them.
And so the goal was to try and create like an army of future use
essentially by sending them to work at these organizations.
So the way that you have like the learning center to try and teach people about
these things, though, our approach was we had that camp, but then we said, look,
just go work at the business for two years at like these formative, um,
twenties, you know, cause most of them are, are coming out of college.
Wow. I mean,
what an amazing idea and how long has the program been running?
Uh, we started it in 2011, so it's nine years in. Um,
we have some real successes where some of the alums have started significant
enterprises. Uh, you know,
at this point I think we're responsible for something like maybe, um,
like a few thousand jobs, like depending upon how you calculate it.
Um, I should put you in touch with the CEO, but I,
I started and ran that organization full time, uh, for six and a half years.
And it was only after I realized that the,
the changes in our economy were going to be much bigger and hairier than
anything I could counteract with like my army of, uh,
entrepreneurs that I decided to do the, an thing of running for president.
Well, you made a statement and I think it was inappropriate statement to make.
I think you gave a lot of people, a lot of hope and, and,
and the idea of possibilities and opportunity.
And I think that that singular moment was a huge character
defining moment.
The fact that you're giving young entrepreneurs a chance to work in the real
world and then if they succeed and if they follow the program,
there's opportunity for them to do more is really,
I think at the center of what I believe in, which is,
I want to give you a hand up,
but I'm not going to give you a handout and you gotta work for it.
And you got to show me you're committed to it.
And the way you show me you're committed to it is by going to work and following
through. I think that's amazing. How,
how can other people get involved in the organization? People like Mike.
Oh, people like you. Geez, Mark is, we'll roll out the red carpet.
I'll put you in touch with the CEO because you could speak at the training camp.
Um, you know, you could mentor some of the folks who are coming out, uh,
you know, you could do, you could mean invest in,
in some of the growth businesses. Uh, you'd love it.
It's essentially an army of aspiring Hughes. And,
uh, and, and to me, the problem is that like, if you're an aspiring, you,
I mean, you and I both had like, you know,
frankly like stumbles in our twenties,
cause like you're just starting to figure it out and like, and it,
and it's a very isolating, stumbled circumstance.
We had stumbles in our forties. I think yesterday.
You stumbled the whole time. It's true. Uh, you know, and,
and I'm sharing your case too. You,
you eventually have like a few people that you connect with on like a real human
level, um, that understand you and what drives you.
That's the most beautiful thing about venture for America.
Marcus is these young people become so close to each other, uh,
that like imagine having that kinship early on,
where instead of people just thinking you're crazy,
there are at least a few other crazy people like you that are like, yeah,
I do that.
There's the number of organizations out there that don't do a similar thing in
practice. But in terms of principle of that comradery,
it's like a YPO type organization where these young folks are sort of part
of the fraternity of young entrepreneurs.
And there's something that those lifelong relationships can never be fractured.
I mean, what you've done is incredible. Um,
and I can sense you and I saw the same need. And then, you know,
we went after it in different ways. Uh, like, uh, so it's,
that's one reason why I'm such an admirer of yours is like,
I understand the spirit and the spirit of what drives you, the spirit of,
um,
of helping people become stronger versions of themselves through this process of
entrepreneurship in many ways. Cause like the business, the business,
but really it's about the people, uh, like it's,
it's so vital in American life and we don't talk about it enough. Like you're,
you're one of the primary champions that exists of this, uh,
w like it used to be much more built into American life.
Uh, but now it's less. So.
I think that's one reason why your, why is that?
Yeah, I mean, there are a few very, very big reasons. Uh, you know,
if someone asks me, like I say,
a lot of it is that we're in the midst of the most extreme winner,
take all economy in the history of the world where when you and I were coming
out of college, there was no Amazon. Like now what's Amazon.
Amazon is like a one to $2 trillion company that, you know,
just like Hoovers up commerce, right. And left like a generation ago.
If someone were to want to start a hardware store,
you might think that's a good idea. And then eventually, you know,
like the big box retailers made that a bad idea. And then I liken it.
The big box retailers were like tanks that came to town and the mom and pop
businesses were like, Oh, no, there's a tank. Um, and Amazon's like a spaceship.
And so if you're like these small business owners, you look up and you're like,
how the hell do I compete with a spaceship? And, you know, like the,
the spaceship doesn't even need to make money in a given quarter.
This spaceship has unlimited capital unlimited data. Like, so, um, so,
so that's one big reason why it's harder, uh, you know, uh, uh,
for young people,
it's that the college education that you and I received in the nineties got two
and a half times more pricey at some point. Uh,
and so you have these young kids coming out who now have, you know,
life-changing debt in a way that like for you and me back in the nineties,
it was plausible that we could quote unquote, work our way through school.
You could actually like, make enough money to maybe pay for your school.
But that was back when college costs, uh, you know,
20 to 25 grand a year and not 60 grand a year. And like, you know, it's like,
can, can a kid, like, you know, uh, work their way through 60 grand a year.
It's like less likely. Uh, and then there are choices that get constrained,
like, uh,
a lot of the community financial institutions that used to exist got gobbled up
by, you know, like the JP Morgan's of the world where like the,
the consolidation you see in retail for Amazon has happened in financial
services. For sure. It happens in tech for sure. Like, uh, that, like,
there are a lot of like the biggest industries that have become consolidated
around like a few winners, um, you know, media and journalism's and another,
like 2000 local newspapers gone. So if you're like a local journalist, like,
you know, like that that's gone. And so you,
you have a shot if you go to New York and work for, um,
for NBC or like one of those, like, you know, those, those outlets persist.
Um,
so there's something that's been lost and people like you and I are looking at
it and we've sensed it. And then we're like, huh, like we w what gets lost too,
is that process that makes those people into the people they aspired to be
like in, in some ways the people that you and I have become, uh,
though were kind of an earlier generation than a lot of them.
Yeah. It, um,
I worry about where we go from here.
And I, uh,
along with you feel like it's time to double
on the young people, because I don't know what 10 years,
20 years looks like if they become disenchanted or disillusioned
or suppressed. And so when, when we started this foundation,
this $50 million foundation, it was exclusively, uh,
to provide financial grants, loans,
and equity investments to underserved communities and underserved individuals.
And people have said credible. Yeah, you're just,
you're just trying to help poor people. And I said, no,
I'm actually not trying to help any specific class of people,
other than those who have not been given the same opportunities that I was given
period. And so we don't need to debate it cause it's my money.
It kind of doesn't matter what you think I'm.
So it's not like I'm using your money or the government's money.
This is what I believe in there are women and people of color who haven't
been given the same opportunity, by the way, when they take my money,
I'm going to put them through the same paces, the same way.
I just want people to feel like if they had an opportunity,
what would they do with it? If they fail,
it's no different than people that are males or people that are not of color.
And so I just, I worry about them and I worry about our,
our societal disregard or lack of acknowledgement. People like to talk about it,
um, and say, we should start a fund. And you watch a lot of these big companies,
well, where we're donating a certain amount of money to this. Cause it's like,
it's not a, cause it's not a charity. These people are not, um,
they're not, they're not, unfortunately they're not, um, you know, um, uh,
handicap, they're not disabled. They're just, uh,
social and economically disabled. And I want to try to fix that.
Am I going to fix it? I probably won't. Am I going to try for sure.
You're going to fix it. You're going to fix it for, um,
a certain number of people. And that in itself is incredible like that.
Exactly. Thank you for listening in. I hope you enjoyed this conversation.
If you did, please do subscribe to yang,
speaks and click on notifications so we can let you know every time we have a
new episode.
[Inaudible].